---
layout: post
title:  "Solid-State Rydberg Physics"
author: Thomas
categories: [ Condensed matter, Exciton physics, Strongly interacting bosons, THz spectroscopy ]
image: assets/images/RydX.jpeg
hidden: false
---

**This section is a work in progress**


__Long-term research goals:__

When many particles interact, the emerging collective behavior is often counter-intuitive and too complex to compute. 
To bypass this complication, quantum simulation solves intricate quantum problems by transferring their essence into better-controlled artificial systems.
However, all such approaches so far use interacting matter despite the extreme challenge of measuring the full many-body state of massive particles. Light is comparatively easy to measure,
but does not form many-body states by lack of significant photon-photon interaction.

My project will pioneer a new semiconductor-based concept for strong photon-photon interactions,
designed for the full characterization of complex many-body states. 
Its core innovation is to transfer giant interactions from Rydberg excitons to optical photons. 
With this new line of attack, I will create a novel platform to explore complex problems of correlated condensed matter with light. My approach presents unique advantages:
1. Mimicking complex material systems with light, it unlocks the direct detection of elusive
many-body information like spatial phase correlations;
2. Bringing delicate cold atoms techniques to the much higher energy scales of condensed
matter, it allows large-scale all-optical control of many-photon states;
3. As a chip-sized solid-state platform, it can be micro-structured to design increasingly complex
experiments with an arbitrary geometry.

The end goal is therefore a novel photonic quantumsimulator tailored to shed light on universal many-body properties, such as those underlying quantum phase transitions. 
Moreover, dissipation can be engineered, which enables to controllably move the system away from equilibrium.
By tuning the semiconductor environment I will test the competition between dissipation and interactions, and demonstrate unusual physics such as dissipation-driven quantum phase transitions.